README.md, before:

# MyRocky Headless Frontend

A modern, headless storefront for Rocky built with Next.js App Router. It renders a fast, SEO-friendly frontend while integrating with a WordPress + WooCommerce backend via serverless API routes. This repo focuses on UX, performance, tracking, and a robust checkout that mirrors WooCommerce Store API behavior.

## Tech Stack
- Next.js 15 (App Router)
- React 19
- Tailwind CSS
- Axios for server-to-server calls
- Vercel Analytics & Speed Insights
- WooCommerce REST + Store APIs (headless)
- AWS S3 (presigned uploads)
- PostGrid (CA address autocomplete)

## Project Structure
- `app/`: App Router pages, layouts, and server actions
  - `layout.jsx`: Global layout, fonts, GTM, tracking providers, toast container
  - `middleware.js`: Auth + routing helpers, protected routes, header injection
  - `api/`: Serverless endpoints that proxy/compose backend services
- `components/`: UI and feature modules (cart, checkout, quizzes, product, blog, etc.)
- `lib/`: Backend integrations, domain models, factories
  - `woocommerce.js`: REST client, product/variation helpers, caching
  - `models/`: product category handlers, product types, variation logic
  - `constants/`: shared data (e.g., FAQs, product types)
- `public/`: static assets
- `config/`: product lists and configuration

## Key Behaviors
- Global layout injects:
  - Google Tag Manager
  - Convert Experiences experiments
  - TikTok Pixel (client ID sourced from env)
  - Vercel Analytics and Speed Insights
  - `Navbar`/`Footer` are conditionally hidden for minimal pages
- `middleware.js`:
  - Adds `x-pathname` header for layout decisions
  - Redirects legacy paths (e.g., `/old-blog/*` → `/blog/*`)
  - Enforces auth for protected routes (e.g., `/checkout`, `/cart`, questionnaires)
  - Smart redirect from `login-register` to `checkout` when onboarding params exist
- Image domains configured in `next.config.mjs` to safely optimize remote images

## API Routes (Selected)
All routes are under `app/api/*` and run server-side; they never expose secrets to the browser.

- Auth & Profile
  - `POST /api/login`: Authenticates with WordPress JWT; stores session via httpOnly cookies
  - `POST /api/register`: Two-step validation + user creation via custom WP endpoint; seeds session cookies
  - `GET /api/profile`: Returns merged user, billing, and shipping data from WP
- Cart & Checkout
  - `GET /api/cart`: Loads Woo Store cart or a local cookie-based fallback when unauthenticated
  - `PUT /api/cart`: Updates quantity
  - `DELETE /api/cart`: Removes items (handles variety packs and WL program constraints)
  - `POST /api/checkout`: Calls Woo Store checkout; supports Bambora tokenization and saved cards
- Products
  - `GET /api/products/[slug]` and variants: Product details powered by `lib/woocommerce`
  - `GET /api/products/by-id/[id]`: Product lookup by ID
- Northbeam
  - `POST /api/northbeam/orders`: Normalizes orders and sends to Northbeam with derived tags
- Utilities
  - `POST /api/s3/presigned-url`: Returns a presigned POST policy for S3 uploads (images only)
  - `POST /api/postgrid/address-autocomplete`: Canadian address suggestions via PostGrid
  - Various domain routes: `ed`, `wl`, `hair`, `mental-health`, `blogs`, `search`, etc.

## Environment Variables
Define variables in your deployment environment. Never commit secrets.

- WordPress / WooCommerce
  - `BASE_URL`: Base URL of the WP site (used for REST/Store APIs)
  - `CONSUMER_KEY`: WooCommerce REST key (server-side only)
  - `CONSUMER_SECRET`: WooCommerce REST secret (server-side only)
  - `ADMIN_TOKEN`: Server-only token for custom WP endpoints requiring elevated access
- Session & Site URLs (used for SSR-safe base URL resolution and redirects)
  - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SITE_URL` (public)
  - `SITE_URL`
  - `NEXTAUTH_URL`
  - `VERCEL_URL` (provided by Vercel)
- Tracking
  - `NEXT_PUBLIC_TIKTOK_PIXEL_ID` (public, optional)
  - Vercel Analytics/Speed Insights require no secrets
- Northbeam
  - `NB_CLIENT_ID` or `NORTHBEAM_CLIENT_ID`
  - `NB_API_KEY` or `NORTHBEAM_AUTH_TOKEN`
- AWS S3 (uploads)
  - `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`
  - `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`
  - `AWS_REGION`
  - `S3_BUCKET_NAME`
- PostGrid (address autocomplete)
  - `POSTGRID_API_KEY`

Notes:
- Client-exposed vars must be prefixed `NEXT_PUBLIC_` per Next.js convention.
- Keys like `CONSUMER_SECRET`, `ADMIN_TOKEN`, and Northbeam credentials must remain server-only.

## Local Development
```bash
npm install
npm run dev
```
- App runs at `http://localhost:3000`
- Ensure required env vars are present for any features you test; some routes will fail gracefully if missing

## Deployment
- Designed for Vercel; uses `vercel.json` for redirects/rewrites and a cron to hit `/api/wp-cron`
- Set environment variables in your hosting platform
- `next.config.mjs` restricts allowed remote image hosts

## WooCommerce Integration Highlights
- `lib/woocommerce.js` wraps REST API with:
  - Product fetch by slug and ID
  - Variation normalization (matching legacy PHP shape)
  - In-memory caching for products and variations (30 minutes)
  - Fallback mapping for subscription-type variations
- Store API calls (cart/checkout) are proxied server-side to keep auth secure

## Auth & Cookies
- `authToken` stores Basic credentials (generated from user login) for server-to-server requests
- Additional cookies store user metadata used by the UI
- Middleware protects sensitive routes and preserves `redirect_to` across login

## Styling
- Tailwind is configured in both `tailwind.config.mjs` and `tailwind.config.js`
- Custom animations and gradients
- DatePicker CSS scanning via `./node_modules/react-tailwindcss-datepicker/dist/index.esm.js`

## Analytics & Experiments
- GTM is injected early (`beforeInteractive`), noscript iframe fallback included
- Convert Experiences is loaded globally
- TikTok Pixel is optional and uses a public env var
- Vercel Analytics and Speed Insights are enabled

## Image Optimization
- Remote patterns are explicitly whitelisted in `next.config.mjs`
- Use `next/image` for all external assets from approved domains

## Security & Privacy
- Never log PII or secrets; server logs only contain high-level events
- Secrets are read only in server contexts (`app/api`, Node server code)
- API routes validate inputs, limit file types, and sanitize when possible

## Common Issues
- Missing env variables will throw clear errors (e.g., WooCommerce client validation)
- Cart operations require a fresh `cart-nonce`; the API refreshes it on failure
- Some routes rely on WordPress custom endpoints; ensure they exist on the backend

## Scripts
```json
{
  "dev": "next dev --turbopack",
  "build": "next build",
  "start": "next start",
  "lint": "next lint"
}
```

## License
Proprietary. All rights reserved.

Commit message:

Enhance currency handling across the application by integrating dynamic currency retrieval. Updated various API routes and components to utilize the new currency functions, ensuring consistent currency usage in order processing, analytics, and checkout flows. Added documentation for new environment variables related to currency.

README.md, after:

# MyRocky Headless Frontend

A modern, headless storefront for Rocky built with Next.js App Router. It renders a fast, SEO-friendly frontend while integrating with a WordPress + WooCommerce backend via serverless API routes. This repo focuses on UX, performance, tracking, and a robust checkout that mirrors WooCommerce Store API behavior.

## Tech Stack
- Next.js 15 (App Router)
- React 19
- Tailwind CSS
- Axios for server-to-server calls
- Vercel Analytics & Speed Insights
- WooCommerce REST + Store APIs (headless)
- AWS S3 (presigned uploads)
- PostGrid (CA address autocomplete)

## Project Structure
- `app/`: App Router pages, layouts, and server actions
  - `layout.jsx`: Global layout, fonts, GTM, tracking providers, toast container
  - `middleware.js`: Auth + routing helpers, protected routes, header injection
  - `api/`: Serverless endpoints that proxy/compose backend services
- `components/`: UI and feature modules (cart, checkout, quizzes, product, blog, etc.)
- `lib/`: Backend integrations, domain models, factories
  - `woocommerce.js`: REST client, product/variation helpers, caching
  - `models/`: product category handlers, product types, variation logic
  - `constants/`: shared data (e.g., FAQs, product types)
- `public/`: static assets
- `config/`: product lists and configuration

## Key Behaviors
- Global layout injects:
  - Google Tag Manager
  - Convert Experiences experiments
  - TikTok Pixel (client ID sourced from env)
  - Vercel Analytics and Speed Insights
  - `Navbar`/`Footer` are conditionally hidden for minimal pages
- `middleware.js`:
  - Adds `x-pathname` header for layout decisions
  - Redirects legacy paths (e.g., `/old-blog/*` → `/blog/*`)
  - Enforces auth for protected routes (e.g., `/checkout`, `/cart`, questionnaires)
  - Smart redirect from `login-register` to `checkout` when onboarding params exist
- Image domains configured in `next.config.mjs` to safely optimize remote images

## API Routes (Selected)
All routes are under `app/api/*` and run server-side; they never expose secrets to the browser.

- Auth & Profile
  - `POST /api/login`: Authenticates with WordPress JWT; stores session via httpOnly cookies
  - `POST /api/register`: Two-step validation + user creation via custom WP endpoint; seeds session cookies
  - `GET /api/profile`: Returns merged user, billing, and shipping data from WP
- Cart & Checkout
  - `GET /api/cart`: Loads Woo Store cart or a local cookie-based fallback when unauthenticated
  - `PUT /api/cart`: Updates quantity
  - `DELETE /api/cart`: Removes items (handles variety packs and WL program constraints)
  - `POST /api/checkout`: Calls Woo Store checkout; supports Bambora tokenization and saved cards
- Products
  - `GET /api/products/[slug]` and variants: Product details powered by `lib/woocommerce`
  - `GET /api/products/by-id/[id]`: Product lookup by ID
- Northbeam
  - `POST /api/northbeam/orders`: Normalizes orders and sends to Northbeam with derived tags
- Utilities
  - `POST /api/s3/presigned-url`: Returns a presigned POST policy for S3 uploads (images only)
  - `POST /api/postgrid/address-autocomplete`: Canadian address suggestions via PostGrid
  - Various domain routes: `ed`, `wl`, `hair`, `mental-health`, `blogs`, `search`, etc.

## Environment Variables
Define variables in your deployment environment. Never commit secrets.

- WordPress / WooCommerce
  - `BASE_URL`: Base URL of the WP site (used for REST/Store APIs)
  - `CONSUMER_KEY`: WooCommerce REST key (server-side only)
  - `CONSUMER_SECRET`: WooCommerce REST secret (server-side only)
  - `ADMIN_TOKEN`: Server-only token for custom WP endpoints requiring elevated access
- Session & Site URLs (used for SSR-safe base URL resolution and redirects)
  - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SITE_URL` (public)
  - `SITE_URL`
  - `NEXTAUTH_URL`
  - `VERCEL_URL` (provided by Vercel)
- Tracking
  - `NEXT_PUBLIC_TIKTOK_PIXEL_ID` (public, optional)
  - Vercel Analytics/Speed Insights require no secrets
- Northbeam
  - `NB_CLIENT_ID` or `NORTHBEAM_CLIENT_ID`
  - `NB_API_KEY` or `NORTHBEAM_AUTH_TOKEN`
- AWS S3 (uploads)
  - `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`
  - `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`
  - `AWS_REGION`
  - `S3_BUCKET_NAME`
- PostGrid (address autocomplete)
  - `POSTGRID_API_KEY`
- Currency
  - `CURRENCY`: Currency code for server-side usage (e.g., "CAD", "USD") - defaults to "CAD"
  - `NEXT_PUBLIC_CURRENCY`: Currency code for client-side usage (e.g., "CAD", "USD") - defaults to "CAD"

Notes:
- Client-exposed vars must be prefixed `NEXT_PUBLIC_` per Next.js convention.
- Keys like `CONSUMER_SECRET`, `ADMIN_TOKEN`, and Northbeam credentials must remain server-only.

## Local Development
```bash
npm install
npm run dev
```
- App runs at `http://localhost:3000`
- Ensure required env vars are present for any features you test; some routes will fail gracefully if missing

## Deployment
- Designed for Vercel; uses `vercel.json` for redirects/rewrites and a cron to hit `/api/wp-cron`
- Set environment variables in your hosting platform
- `next.config.mjs` restricts allowed remote image hosts

## WooCommerce Integration Highlights
- `lib/woocommerce.js` wraps REST API with:
  - Product fetch by slug and ID
  - Variation normalization (matching legacy PHP shape)
  - In-memory caching for products and variations (30 minutes)
  - Fallback mapping for subscription-type variations
- Store API calls (cart/checkout) are proxied server-side to keep auth secure

## Auth & Cookies
- `authToken` stores Basic credentials (generated from user login) for server-to-server requests
- Additional cookies store user metadata used by the UI
- Middleware protects sensitive routes and preserves `redirect_to` across login

## Styling
- Tailwind is configured in both `tailwind.config.mjs` and `tailwind.config.js`
- Custom animations and gradients
- DatePicker CSS scanning via `./node_modules/react-tailwindcss-datepicker/dist/index.esm.js`

## Analytics & Experiments
- GTM is injected early (`beforeInteractive`), noscript iframe fallback included
- Convert Experiences is loaded globally
- TikTok Pixel is optional and uses a public env var
- Vercel Analytics and Speed Insights are enabled

## Image Optimization
- Remote patterns are explicitly whitelisted in `next.config.mjs`
- Use `next/image` for all external assets from approved domains

## Security & Privacy
- Never log PII or secrets; server logs only contain high-level events
- Secrets are read only in server contexts (`app/api`, Node server code)
- API routes validate inputs, limit file types, and sanitize when possible

## Common Issues
- Missing env variables will throw clear errors (e.g., WooCommerce client validation)
- Cart operations require a fresh `cart-nonce`; the API refreshes it on failure
- Some routes rely on WordPress custom endpoints; ensure they exist on the backend

## Scripts
```json
{
  "dev": "next dev --turbopack",
  "build": "next build",
  "start": "next start",
  "lint": "next lint"
}
```

## License
Proprietary. All rights reserved.
